Let's get started on using the "sed" commands.
To create a new file,
test1 at the command prompt, type:
"cat > test1", and press Enter.
Type the following sentences:
"This is a Sample Test File [that is used] for the "sed" command.
The sed command is used to edit contents in a file.
For example, the sed command is used to replace words in a line or file.",
and press the Enter key,
and press Ctrl+D to save the file.
You will return to the command prompt.
To substitute first string occurrence in a line, type: "sed s/is/are/ test1",
and press the Enter key.
The first occurrence of the word "is",
is replaced with "are".
To view the file test1, type:
"cat test1", and press the Enter key.
The file test1 is displayed at the command prompt.
The contents of test1 are not altered,
because we don't save the results of the "sed" command.
To substitute string occurrence globally on a range of lines, type:
"sed 1,2s/is/are/g test1",
and press the Enter key.
All occurrences of the word "is"
between line one and two are replaced with "are".
To view the file test1, type: "cat test1", and press the Enter key.
The file test1 is displayed at the command prompt.
The contents of test1 are not altered,
because we don't save the results of the "sed" command.
To substitute string occurrence globally, type:
"sed s/is/are/g test1",
and press the Enter key.
All occurrences of the word "is"
in the file test1,
are replaced with "are".
To view the file test1, type:
"cat test1", and press the Enter key.
The file test1 is displayed at the command prompt.
The contents of test1 are not altered,
because we don't save the results of the "sed" command.